---
title: "Master Thesis Project Report: Week 2"
tags:
  - TFM
  - Report
---


# Week 2
So its friday and as I know I am not going to have time to work much more on
my master thesis this week a short project update.

[//]: # "Main topics
* Literature search
* System Architecture"

# Literature search
I dived into the literature provided generously by my supervisor Michael Kickmeier,
and in particular into the following two papers.

Bogdanovych, A., & Trescak, T. (2017). To Plan or Not to Plan: Lessons Learned from Building Large Scale Social Simulations. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67401-8_6
{: .notice--info}
In this work the authors compare the computational demands of two methods of controlling agent behavior in a
multi-agent simulation.

Badiee, F., & Kaufman, D. (2015). Design Evaluation of a Simulation for Teacher Education. SAGE Open, 5(2), 215824401559245. https://doi.org/10.1177/2158244015592454
{: .notice--info}
The authors present and discuss the user based feedback on the school class simulation called [simschool](www.simshool.org).

The first paper provided little insight for my Thesis, but the second paper is a useful source of references and follow up papers on the topics of best practices for building simulations. In addition it got me thinking about how many of the school simulations and simulations in general fall onto a spectrum, on which ends one has on one site a very interactive application that can be used to train teachers in interacting with a class (e.g. simschool), and on the other site of the spectrum social simulations (e.g. Netlogo) that have no interaction at all and run after an initial parameterization completely autonomous. Where the interaction heavy simulations normally have only very simple or none (i.e. scripted) agent intelligence in place, and in particular almost no interaction between those agents, and on the other site focus only on the agent interactions and provide no way to interactively perturb the system.

This raises for me the question, where should the simulation that I am building fall onto this spectrum?


In addition I found a master thesis

Poli, N. (2017). Game Engines and MAS : BDI & Artifacts in Unity Thesis in Autonomous Systems. Retrieved from https://github.com/conner985/UnityLogic
{: .notice--info}

that connects Unity3D with a Prolog based Multi Agent Framework. This work has some similarity with mine, and was a source of some excellent references that will keep me occupied for quite some time.

After skimming through the work, it was clear to me that I have to learn more about the **Belife Desire Intetion (BDI) model** and so I got some more papers and a book on the topic.

Rao, A. S., & Georgeff, M. P. (1995, June). BDI agents: from theory to practice. In ICMAS (Vol. 95, pp. 312-319).
{: .notice--info}

Wooldridge, M. (2010). An Introduction to MultiAgent Systems - 2nd Edition. ACM SIGACT News (Vol. 41).
{: .notice--info}


